Epidemiology Capacity Assessments are an essential source of information on the epidemiological workforce's strength and capacity for policymakers.
Therefore, to perceive gaps for future improvements, it is necessary to determine national veterinary services' epidemiological workforce capability periodically.
However, the data does not mirror the country's overall potential because assessments are administered predominantly in veterinary departments neglecting different
departments employing veterinarians that function comparable duties, such as veterinary public health, wildlife and fisheries departments.

Epidemiology services provided to other departments
Data analysis, preparedness, environmental health etc.  
FAO mission should partner with other departments to asses capacity of all departments. Topics in the assessment included epidemiology leadership, staffing, funding, capacity to perform 4 epidemiology-related Essential Public Health Services, salary ranges, hiring requirements, use of competencies, training needs, and job vacancies
full-time equivalent epidemiologists
Core competencies listed in this document are defined for three levels of professional in mind. 
This list of core competencies is intended to be used as a reference document to design strategies and programmes to train future generations of epidemiologists in order to meet the needs of public health agencies.  Epidemiologists  may use the list for planning and evaluating their own career development.

•	In November 2006, a working paper and a list of competencies was drafted and reviewed by experts, FAO coordinators, and members of the the working group. Expert meeting and review In January 2018, 14 experts from 15 different institutions discussed a first draft of the list of core competencies.
•	A structured questionnaire and a list of competencies were sent to the participants of the expert meeting who were asked to comment on content and structure.
Also consulted were the lists of competencies produced by the Training Programmes in Epidemiology and Public Health Interventions Network (TEPHINET) and the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US CDC).
The Centre shall, as appropriate, support and coordinate training programmes in order to assist Member States  to have sufficient numbers of trained specialists, in particular in epidemiological surveillance and field investigations, and to have a capability to define health measures to control disease outbreaks’





